I am welcome to the bread kitchen there
was a time when you'd go into an Italian
restaurant and you'd be pretty certain
of finding breadsticks on the table it's
not so common these days but they're
very easy to make yourself at home
so for my breadsticks I've got 225 grams
of strong white bread flour a hundred
and thirty-five mils of lukewarm water
barely warm two tablespoons of extreme
virgin olive oil so this is virgin olive
oil this is extra virgin olive oil this
is ultra virgin olive oil and then
there's extreme virgin olive oil what in
a half teaspoons of salt and one and a
half teaspoons of dried yeast put the
yeast in the water give it a bit of a
wheeze and then leave it for 10 minutes
to activate sift the flour and the salt
into a bowl
lift a little well in the center
pour in the eastern water mixture don't
the olive oil sorry the extreme virgin
olive oil
I'll mix it all together to a soft dough
it shouldn't take you long to get this
nice slightly sticky dough and when you
do you can leave it on a floured surface
for eight to ten minutes until smooth
and elastic okay
I'm gonna let you in on a little secret
don't tell anyone but I like to add a
special ingredient and needed a better
tablespoon of
Parmesan cheese Shh hopefully most of my
Italian viewers won't understand if I
use the word apoplexy but they're
probably experiencing it right now all
right my dough is lovely and soft and
elastic I'll just cover my board with
flour then I'm gonna roll the dough out
to about 15 centimeters by 20
centimeters
what about 6 by 8 then brush it with a
little olive oil then cover with some
cling film and leave it to rise for
about an hour or until it's doubled in
size oh puffed up me lovely so I'll take
the film off and I'll cut it down the
middle a sharp knife and I'll cut each
half into about 10 strips this way there
we are now I'm gonna take a strip and
stretch it very gently until it's about
30 centimeters or 12 inches long
I couldn't roll it a bit if you want to
and when you cut it to the right length
and this is about the right length pop
it onto a lightly oiled baking tray
don't carry on with the next one they
are now certainly gonna need two baking
trays for this so when you filled one
just brush the crostini likely with
olive oil now just leave them in a nice
warm place for about 15 minutes to rise
please look like they're ready to go so
I'm going to pop them in the oven at 200
degrees C for about 15 minutes
once the licen brown transfer to a wire
rack to cool home made grissini life
doesn't get much better than this
another special ingredients that you can
try is to roll the breadsticks and
sesame seeds before you bake them
delicious I hope you enjoy making your
crostini and don't forget to join me
next time it's the bread kitchen